So far, we've covered how to model behavior using activity sequence and state diagrams.
So, using this, let's model the data.
Traditionally, a class diagram shows the structure of
a system by modeling the systems classes,
their attributes and methods,
and the relationship among these objects.
Before a blockchain use case,
this diagram will be used to model the relationships
and attributes for a system's smart contracts.
Now, because of this,
our version of the class diagram by the general name, data modeling diagram.
This brings up the question,
well, what about the databases?
Will this information will be housed in traditional databases and
tables or will they be stored in a blockchain data storage solution?
Also, how can we efficiently organize this information,
especially if there are hundreds and thousands of
actors involved who are entering and retrieving data?
In our previous diagrams,
we looked at the behaviors,
focusing on common behaviors, actions, interactions.
Now, we'll focus on the structures,
values, classifiers, and packages.
Let's look at our pet shop example again.
How can we structure this smart contracts?
There are many ways that you could structure the same information.
Our approach is just one approach.
The reasons that we chose it are that it helps keep
the related code bundled together without having one single giant
file with everything in it and it accommodates
future growth say in the number of actors or the behaviors.
For our use case, we've broken it out this project into
three smart contracts versus the core contract.
This is the main contract that tracks the pet adoption from breeder to owner.
Next is the base contact,
this defines the struct functions and more.
Lastly, we have our access control contract,
which defines the roles of each actor.
Here's how these contracts are relate using
the traditional UML class diagram annotations.
The solid lines represent Association and the open arrow represents inheritance.
The core contract inherits from
the base contact which inherits from the access control contract.
The core contract is the main contract,
which is what is compiled and run on the blockchain.
This contract ties everything together.
It contains the contract address at the app points too,
and it inherits all the data and methods from the previous contracts.
Let's focus on the access control contract.
This contract controls access control for each actor.
So, there are two actors involved here.
Each has a role that's distinct with no overlap in
their accessibility and they're accessed via their addresses.
The abilities listed for each role above are exhaustive.
So, the breeder and owner contracts will inherit from the access control contract.
Access control will contain the general permissions that all actors in
the supply chain will have such as access to information about the pet's health and age,
but breeder and owner will each have their own specific permissions.
For example, the breeder is able to advertise pet for adoption.
Next is the base contract.
It holds all the common structs and events.
For example, the pet struct that contains the attributes for the pet.
So, the pet will have a pet tracking ID.
There's also events which we determined in our state diagram,
which are raised, vaccinated,
advertised, metAdopters and adopted.
Lastly is a core contract.
As mentioned before, this is
the main contract which is what is compiled and running on the blockchain.
It inherits from all the contracts and we looked at prior to
this and its contract ties everything together.
So, we've broken it out in two ways.
First, we have several separately instantiated sibling contracts
that handle user access control and their actions.
Secondly, we break the core contract into multiple files
using inheritance and this keeps the related code bundled together,
but prevents a giant bloated file containing everything.
This contract can be used to: One,
set a new address in cases upgrading.
Two, pause the record in case anything happens such as the contract is compromised.
Three, set the ownable contract,
which sets the owner address and transfer owner of the contract. Sum it all up.
This diagram can be read as having three classifiers.
First, the access control contract,
then the base contract, and the core contract.
So, the core contract inherits from the base contract,
which inherits from the access control contract.
Each actors permissions are set in the access control contract.
So, the base contract stores how the asset,
in our case the pet is representing and the core contracts ties them all together.
It also tracks the pet adoption from breeder to owner,
and handles logistics such as contract upgrades and the contract needs to be paused.